# Links 

> Detailed description and proofs of insert operations:
> http://www.cs.emory.edu/~cheung/Courses/253/Syllabus/Trees/AVL-insert.html

> Geeksforgeeks illustration of the insertion process
> https://www.geeksforgeeks.org/avl-tree-set-1-insertion/

# Procedure

Inserting w in the AVL tree, initially it is done performing the BST insert. Going up the tree from the parent node, check the first parent node that is unbalanced due to the insert.
Let z be the first unbalanced node, y the child in the direction of the imbalance and x the grandchild in the same direction.

There are 4 possible scenarios:
- left left: This occurs when the child and the grandchild are both on the left node. The rotation to be performed is the right rotation of z, which means that y becomes the parent of z, and the node that was in the right position of y now belongs to the left node of z.
- right right: This occurs when the child and grandchild are on the right node. To correct this scenario the rotation is the one of left rotating on z similar to the previous scenario.
- left right: child is on the left node and grandchild is on the right node. First the child is left rotated, meaning that the right grandchild becomes parent of the child. Now the configuration is the same one as a left left scenario, and as such, the parent node is right rotated. 
- right left: child node is right rotated, and then the configuration is the same one as right right, as such a left rotation follows on the parent node.


The trinode operation does not need to be repeated for the remaining nodes in the tree, as illlustrated in the first link of this document, it proves that balancing the first imbalanced node maintains the avl properties.