# Links

> Deletion illustration 
> http://www.cs.emory.edu/~cheung/Courses/253/Syllabus/Trees/AVL-delete.html

To delete a node in an AVL Tree, there are 3 scenarios:

## Node to be deleted is Leaf

In this case, the deletion procedure starts with simply removing the node, and assigning it's parent the actionPos.

## Node to be deleted has a single child

Delete the node, and put it's child in the position of the parent. The parent of the node deleted is the actionPos.

## Node to be deleted has 2 children.

Find it's in-order successor, or in-order predecessor or successor.

Check the illustrations in the link to better understand these elements.

Because the in-order elements that will go to the position of the node to be deleted had to change positions, their previous parent becomes the actionPos.

## Imbalance due to the deletion of the node

The deleted node, can in turn create a height imbalance in the AVL structure, and to solve this issue, the actionPos nodes are used.

The height only changes between the parent and the root of the physically removed node (actionPos).

The sequence is similar to the insert operation rebalancing with exception to a few rules. 
Starting on the actionPos node, find the first imbalanced node and rebalance it using the well-known 4 operations. 

The resulting subtree on the first imbalanced node becomes balanced, but because the resulting subtree does not preserve it's original height, nodes further up the tree might be imbalanced.





Starting from the actionPos, the parent nodes are visited to determine the first node that is imbalanced. As soon as an imbalance is found, height difference between right and left trees > 1, then the nodes below the imbalanced root node form a tri-node that have to be balanced, with common AVL operations (rotations).

Although the imbalanced node is now balanced, this process has to repeat itself all the way to the root node to make sure that the heights are balanced on both heights of the tree.

